welcome back to the broadcast
and we have champion burke here from
zero one who's going to take us through
an evening session
welcome back everybody it's a pleasure
and an honor to be
um part of leading this uh after hours
event
as part of the great area festival um
i'm sean sure burke i'm the executive
director of zero one
um we're co-located with gray area in
the grand theater on mission street
and we've been working a lot around uh
international collaborations
specifically
and arts education and the program that
we're going to share with you tonight
um a work a series of works from this
program
is one that draws on both of those areas
so this is an international exchange
program
um in which artists come together
through these one-month-long incubators
to collaborate together and rapid
prototype
just could address a local social
challenge in their community
um so the program is called american
arts incubator it's a
project that is a collaboration between
zero one as the implementing
organization
and the us department of state bureau of
educational and cultural affairs
so potentially like many of you probably
know
um about fulbright exchanges or
exchanges of that nature
this is kind of like a fulbright for the
media artists and specifically
media artists who are applying their
craft to
the social realm and to work in
community in collaborative space
so this year as you can imagine um the
incubators that we
normally run abroad through personal
exchange
we're disruptive somewhat and um what we
need to do
is quickly pivot to running virtual
exchanges
uh bringing people together on video and
this quick exchange that we're going to
visit with um actually
that interrupted midstream so um
american arts incubator brazil
was led by artist santiago x who's here
with us tonight
and santiago flew to belo horizonte
in brazil started off a series of
workshops there with
a group of participants and then about a
week in
um travel restrictions started to set in
around the globe
um in relation to the pandemic so we
flew cynthia go back
and he very graciously um completely
redesigned his curriculum
to be able to finish up the exchange and
pivot to
online delivery and um the project that
we're going to be
presenting tonight it is uh called
um it fits really beautifully within the
theme of the gray area festival looking
at
adjacent possible futures and really
thinking
coming at um thinking about the world
with
a systems approach um thinking about
ecosystems thinking about
resources thinking about colonialism in
new ways
and so yeah i would like to start off by
just
asking you santiago to tell us a little
bit about the exchange
tell us about what ai brazil was all
about
yeah this this entire experience was uh
was was pretty incredible um from you
know
being being lucky enough to travel to
brazil and to
experience the culture and and interact
with the participants in this particular
exchange and incubator
and get to know them personally and kind
of like bounce off each other where what
direction we want to go
um you know through this uh
through this incubator uh using art and
technology and and
what kind of issues we were facing at
the time
um and then you know being pulled out of
uh
being pulled out of brazil like i really
didn't want to leave i wanted to stay um
it was
such an incredible place um and but we
got to
uh you know pivot and morph this this
experience
and this response into something that
was really uh really salient really
really pertinent to now and um
and you'll see in the in the experience
in the virtual world that they created
uh you know all the complexities and all
the layers
of of the narrative you know of of uh
it's just it's so poignant and and
gidjin and beatriz will explain to you
you know what rethomata is um you know
through their eyes
what what art and technology has you
know
how they use that tool set to create
this portal um
for introspection and for reflection
um for ourselves and society in the
world and
it's just it was uh it was a priceless
experience for me and i and
you know you can see it in the work that
uh the participants really
really um you know used this
this moment in time and these tools uh
to create something really beautiful
yeah i fully agree the space is really
beautiful
and draws you in i think there's a way
in which you feel like you go
layer upon layer on layers down into
this hygiene space and kind of facial
reflection
so um with that maybe we'll turn our
attention to the space itself and i'll
give a few
logistical cues for folks who are
watching the school or folks who are
listening into the lounge
so if you're listening to the lounge um
take a look over at the conversation
chat on the right and you should see
that maya has friendly chatted a little
to the mozilla hogs
for dirichlet project and you can click
on that
open a separate tab and join us
um for all of you that are watching the
live stream uh the simplest way to get
to the hubs is actually go to the gray
area festival
court page so greater the festival of
ohio
forward slash schedule or you can click
program in the upper right hand corner
and if you scroll down to this event on
the program
and click on exhibition tool zero one
and you will get
the description of what we're up to
tonight and you'll also
see the artist's name lower down on the
page
and that is where uh you can click
through to each of the
virtual faces we'll be touring tonight
so we're in the
brazilian space at the moment
great okay so i myself i've opened up a
separate tab
i have dropped interesting and i'm in
this
dark black space for those of you who
are watching the live stream
or in the lounge can also see as the
live tour video
um it's much smaller though so i
recommend getting into the space
um i'm looking at a dark room with some
mostly black columns rising up as well
as
a sort of 360 image um it's moving above
me like a kind of moving
cloudscape um jonah beatrice can you
tell us a little bit more
about this space hello
i'm mattress auto artist from belo
horizonte brazil
in this first space we actually have
three zones in total this is the first
one
we started the first zone that you are
right now
um thinking about contorno avenue as a
barrier
of cultural and economic access as a
symbol of an economic
of economically inequity contorno avenue
the limits
architect uber urban center
of our city belgium enchu
is an area that concentrates museums
tourist spots universities and
neighborhoods with high costs
the video that wraps the zone that you
can see at the ceiling
was made in a right through contour
[Music]
the entrail at the ground can guide you
through the trees
we wanted that this first place
represented the state
which nature showed its strength
as a result of human attempt to conduct
it
according to our tires at the beginning
of this year
belarizonji headed streets and avenues
flooded
and lanes lights over the city
due to the rampant piping of our rivers
the aquarius you open
in peripheral area causes landslides and
a death of some of these
areas raised an emblematic image
of these floods
was the explosion of this river
that escaped its own block barrier
barriers in a violent way
a video record of this moment can be
seen at one of the buildings
you are seeing it right now
that's where a rhodes river kind of put
it
also in the buildings are messages that
reflect
our current state we believe that the
floods
were a strong signal that we cannot
continue to have the same relationship
between nature and humanity of the last
years
we also wanted to approach the frontier
and destructive
state in which we find ourselves through
the grace of
the great tombs of the zone so
we made this room dark and
because we wanted it to show
state is destructive how we cannot
continue um
with this same relationship with me
you can also see some animals in the
streets
and these are animals that we see often
in belarus once but with
um coronavirus the pandemic and
um with these animals started to show up
really more and more and they are part
of this nature resemble cheonchu
i have to say hetamata can be
translated resumption
can be translated as resumption actually
if you cross this river following the
entrail
you come to
some tracks there
you have a link to zone 2.
so before we transition into the next
space between i just wanted to jump in
and
comment on a couple of things i'm seeing
that i think are really beautifully done
in this space um i like that you've
mixed
this you know photorealistic imagery
footage of the actual floods
and as i understand it just to make sure
everybody is
capturing this detail um the flooding
was really devastating this past year in
brazil
for those of us in california thinking
about the fires recently
it's all part of this disruption that
we're experiencing globally
where really extreme weather is becoming
the new reality
and there in um
in the region surrounding i understand
there's a strong history of mining and
destruction of the earth
and the great tragedy about this recent
this recent landslide that
killed so many uh villagers is that many
of those people i believe
worked in the mines themselves right so
they were they were both put out of work
by these mines being closed down
and then ultimately their lives many of
them lost their lives
to what was left the environmental
devastation that was left
um one of the things i'm really loving
about this
the river that we're crossing following
the ant trail this is
another detail i want to make sure
everybody is capturing that
they're the smallest creature in the ant
sounds floor
um if you haven't found them yet and
you're in the ritual space with us
look for these small sort of yellow
orange creatures on the floor
and follow their trail and they will
guide us into the next space
and uh i'll let you take us again
further into the tour
um yes one minute
and we proceed to the another run
so a curiosity
please look at the ground it's a real
version
of the map of the central part of the
bel horizonte
part of the coyote zone take by progress
which
we questioned so much so
the concurrent avenue is
[Music]
so the country haven't it it's both from
the groud
and in the sky and
and in this room oh another
room
so a little detail
[Music]
a little bit of your audio jones i'm
sorry if that didn't come through it was
it was breaking up for me a little bit
so i'm sorry okay we're now at zonchu
can i start talking about it
um
[Music]
chemistry was saying we live in belo
horizonte
it's capital of the state of minas
gerais
here the mining activity is very present
and as a result we had a lot of
problems and destructions
of populations and cities
neutral landslides due to the mining
zomchu presents one more instance of
interaction by humanity
in our state miniaturize the mining
activities very present
now ayanomami a brazilian digital leader
and think
once compared earth is mentally caused
by mining
armadillos action with the destruction
comes the opening of holes all the land
support
is compromised and exposed if nature
and us are inseparable as one body the
earth's
destruction exposes its organ forms
so we have
like kind of trees with this
red colors like organs exposed
and if we if you continue
and following the entrail you also find
bones you also find
the armadillos like caving
next to tractors there also talks about
this destruction of the earth
and is exposing our organs
if you if you think about nature and us
as just one body that we actually are
yeah beautiful i love the um the large
tree-like structures that really do have
a flesh
like quality to them um there is a sense
of
moving inside of a large body
is that is there something about their
presence that's growing as we move
through the space
yes and in zancho we want wanted to
show of course um this
instruction but we also wanted to make
it a transition zone
um with nature um
taken back its space and
come like living at the same time with
this this destruction
so the end uh are getting bigger because
they represent kind of um we
can have a say in brazil that this
latest
work of an end that's like means
they're a lot of getting together and
with the
little work of each of us we have
like a bigger role that that means
something really
and we wanted this ants to represent
like the
the action of us against this
destruction of nature
there's something um really beautiful
about the title that you've chosen you
know as we're moving through this space
the term reto mala when i first heard it
i thought i translated it myself as
a taking back reito you thinking of
spanish to take back
and to think about possession i think
as the kind of central concept but the
way you've translated it
as resumption i think is actually a
really
generous and poetic way to interpret the
word in english
where the taking back the the return to
nature the
um the reclamation is actually about
beginning again
and less about possession or taking
ownership over
um so there's a really beautiful poetry
in that word i love that you chose that
term
is there anywhere else in this second
space that you'd like us to
draw our attention to or should we keep
following the ants
into the third space
well in
beatrice
nice so the central part
for a temple in the second round is the
middle ground between the vision of the
destruction
the expose of the bones of the earth and
the mountains
with use you you can see in the left
and and the constant
resumption or retro mother by the nature
of and by the human conscience
to the destruction caused by humanity
and the next room you you can see the
final part of this misconception
i think right
i also want to talk about this hole you
see in the middle
that we created these three zones
thinking about it as kind of
complementary in terms of
its phase distribution so zone 1
is like the center zone 2 is the
peripheral
area around the center
and you see don't you
zone three i mean this is only
continuous
this is this logic
so for for everyone who's experiencing
this space and watching online i think
it's worth
letting you know reminding you that this
is all produced within a one month long
exchange so the space that we're
visiting right now
um was created by the team by gijon
betrice
um and a few others who are listed there
um all within the space of really like
10 days this is a prototype of an idea
where within a week or so they learn the
skills required
working with santiago to build these
this virtual space
and we're conceptually working together
to think about how
to create these representations um and
really compute the
the moment that they were living through
in brazil at that moment
and turn it into into what you see now
so there's
it's a really impressive accomplishment
i think i just want to applaud you for
for making such a beautiful immersive
space
in such a short amount of time that
really to someone who's
you know sitting here in california i
think communicates a lot
about the place where you are and
the things you're thinking about how
you're you're experiencing your
environment
so it looks like the the live tour here
is taking us through to the third space
we're just loading up
um we'll experience that space here a
little bit more about that
and and then move on to another ai
exchange
um while that's loading up i wonder um
santiago if there's anything else you'd
like to say about
the process here or what it was like
working with with this team in
particular
um and helping them bring their their
vision to fruition
yeah working with this team um you know
they're they
this team is kind of a powerhouse they
had a really diverse
skill set and kind of range of artistic
abilities and
and understandings and what kind of uh
the continuity between everyone's kind
of approach
uh you know to make this a really
focused project you can kind of see how
that manifested so
so kind of effortlessly and beautifully
is as we started to really just just to
try to digest uh humanity and the
reciprocation of
our existence and the the earth you know
and
and these kind of themes and um the the
concentric circles being pushed out and
there's just so many layers of there's
so much richness there's so much
uh thought um you know this is just like
all all of the content was kind of
bubbling in them and um you know in a
matter of like
like you said 10 days to learn this they
they learned this tool
this tool um hubs and spoke and web vr
and in like one weekend and then
ran with it and we had you know like two
weeks to create a final project
11 days actually and this is what they
came up with
in that amount of time and no one had
any prior experience to this platform
um and like it's just amazing i don't
know i don't understand
um you know how how it all happened so
beautifully but
um it did and it's just it's so rich and
i applaud this team you know forever and
the fact that it
can live on you know in in this realm
forevers
uh speaks multitudes to uh
kind of the the experience and what
you're creating through
zero one through the american arts
incubator and
you know it's just amazing and i hope it
keeps going
awesome thank you santiago so it looks
like we're having a little bit of
trouble loading up
the hubs on the the tour here in the
video lounge but hopefully you all are
able to get in there
on your own machines um and join us
maybe as you're as as that's loading up
uh hopefully
everyone will be able to see it in a
moment um or victories could you tell us
a little bit about that
that third space where we're headed tell
us about the future
so so the third zone
is our utopia zone the land returns
to its original perspectives
and the trail is now popular
by trees ideas and speeches about the
future
about the present about the estimate
that
everyone has in relation to the
world we we see
the end of this journey as a dynamic of
possibilities
then can still be rich stay
statin and stimulating the
out the oh
in relation to the process that can
still be built
to build by our society it's
it's like the the real written mother no
but my words so
like the realization of of the ideal
yes the the reason the
the real written my resumption
in english it's so confused that's that
word
so the it's the real personalization
not uh only our work but
our idea to the future in fact
can complete beatrice
um yes i think this word
was made really with the group
um think about the
think about a better future for us so
it's very personal
but i think everybody
also can connect with
so i think we may have some trouble um
streaming into the video lounge so again
if everyone can visit the
hub space on their own um that's the way
to see the tomata i'll just repeat
um the web address to all of the ai
brazil
if that's possible um so
the quick and easy way to get to see all
four projects that were created
during the incubator in brazil is to go
to aai
brazil.com um that's aai
b r a z i l dot com
um that is a great it's a it's a really
beautifully made site
by by everyone who's involved in the
incubator sunset led by santiago
and um i encourage you to check out the
other virtual spaces that were created
there
as well um so with that i think we'll
uh turn our attention to the next group
of ai artists i want to thank you so
much
santiago beatrice i really appreciate
all the effort you put into this work
and for sharing it with us tonight
um you can go ahead and leave the
conversation and then join back in
listen listen back in
for what's coming up next and uh i'll
start
inviting in the artists who were
involved in the peruvian
incubator in lima um so
just be patient with us for a moment
while we do that
i mean i'm also going to chat burglary
with us in the lounge and we'll tap
the link to the peru uh
virtual gallery so you can check that
out start loading that up
this one is uh it's recommended that you
open it in mozilla
um in firefox i should say um so the
next link the one that i just
chatted to you or if you're going
through the gray area website
make sure to open up that link to the
peruvian projects
with firefox
great
[Music]
okay bringing gabriel into the room hey
welcome
gabriel as i'm inviting everybody in
maybe you could tell us a little bit
about
uh the incubator in peru which you
led entirely virtually you didn't get to
say
unfortunately unfortunately but um i
i feel like i almost uh almost got to go
there
through the experience um yeah so
uh you know really an amazing experience
while i didn't get to go
in person to peru i
was able to conduct the entire
exchange virtually and you know i think
it's
uh you know i have to step back
sometimes think about how amazing it is
that we have
all these platforms that allow us to
interact with each other you know across
the planet
so um yeah just have to step back and
think about that sometimes it's pretty
amazing even with all the technical
challenges we had
um it actually completely transformed uh
really the way i was approaching the
exchange
uh i mean we were originally uh planning
on utilizing a lot of digital
fabrication
within um utech which was our host
institute uh we were going to have a
installation within the contemporary art
museum in lima
and you know none of that was able to
happen so
uh you know we i reframed it to look at
the same topics which
uh for our exchange were we were tasked
with looking at the challenge of urban
development
in lima and particularly i wanted to
frame that within the context
of urban health social equity
and climate change and to think about
speculative futures
for the year 2100 in lima so
the the title of the the work was
collective resilience through adaptive
urbanism
and everybody kind of took a you know a
different perspective and also using
different mediums to interrogate this
idea
of what that meant for them so uh
yeah so the the final exhibition which
you'll see here was also created
just in uh 10 days and it was it's
actually a recreation of one of the
exhibition spaces
in the contemporary art museum uh in
lima
so it was the first time we were
actually all able to
come together in one room and look at
all of the artwork
displayed as if it was an actual you
know curated exhibition
uh at at uh the mac lima
but uh all digital of course so that was
that was pretty incredible
similarly we used mozilla hubs for that
but the work you'll see is is various
uh mediums a lot of uh collage
um use of gifs videos uh
and you know some really incredible work
so hope you're able to check it out
great thank you thank you gabe so it
looks like we've got the live
tour up and running again you can see
the
the uh our beautiful avatar looking
around
in the virtual space in lima in lima
if you uh are not in there yet please
join us
maybe we can turn to some of the
participants uh giovanna christina
leonardo just said
welcome um if any of you would like to
to start
please uh unmute yourself and maybe
take us somewhere within the space and
talk to us about one of the works that
we're
we're seeing
hi
hi hi christina
okay uh hello
everyone i read because
my english is so bad
i just want to share a couple of ideas
about
my experience in america's ring
convector
it changed me a lot because i could
listen to learn from and be part of the
collective of people
that do many things and do not share my
same ideas
and goals and i learned a lot to gabriel
and in my case uh
i present a video that does try to
respond
to this quest question about why
does society make us woman competitors
and opponents and we put a lot of
pressure in our hands and bodies
we try to feed those the narratives and
expectations from other women and men
and
i believe that art is a tool for the
construction and dismattling
these stereotypes that limit us
personality
and also as a collective
and impede us from learning from the
parallel
albeit similar or different journey of
other women and i had a privilege
to meet to meet other women
through kindness and waving before and
during the project
my proposal used fabrics to digital
create
a 3d textile that recreates
our movement and highlights our
different voices
kinetic and waving has been associated
with the domestic shorts and the
subjugation
of woman but this is wrong i usually
explore that waving
and kinetin is also a place of
resistance
to provide voice of the silence bodies
kind eating and waving is a cognitive
process that allows
us to listen and be be heard
i have learned kind of thing from my
mother
and this project has made us both
together
and learn from each other for for
example
that is my is
why my project is collected
which means in latin kinder
to buy which is what we need to buy
communities for women and listen to each
other
and because my my project consists of
bringing together other women
establishing
a dialogue a dialogue free of stereotype
asymmetrics and negative difference
i strongly believe that we can find
place of mutual
understanding and kindness together with
other diversities
and this project it's
not over yet maybe we can
start kinetin or a street with beer
and hopefully hopefully when i
when it is more safe to do so
thank you thank you for you for your
time
it's okay
thank you christina this is great okay
so
whoever would like to speak next if you
can give us some guidance so you can see
where we are in the gallery now you can
see an avatar moving through the space
tell us where to move to get to the next
piece that you'd like to talk to us
about
let's see maybe if
if we go back to the beginning we could
go over to giovanna's
work which is just to the other side of
the entrance
hi hi i'm sansa hi
everybody and my product
is on the hand left
yes um well
in our program
we wonder about the global context
around kobi and
its impact on us and the way in which we
connect
um
the pandemic has stopped us and this
has makes me think about human lives
and its value over induces traditions
and
ignorance also i
in the experience and process that we go
through
for beginner leaf the constant
transformation of our realities
and the footprint we live in a community
and in my opinion i recognize
ourselves in adaptions time
process and memory and this
memory is also full of emotions and
reflections
that will be shown in the future
and this is how
my projects my project ancestors and
future
are created as a fusion of digital
and cultural elements
and well in the
ayakushan traditions and
when one passes away there is a
five-day ceremony in which the family
comes together to remember
forgive and clean
we keep be healed over the body
finish conversations that we couldn't
during their lifetime
understanding that their energy is still
present
but we'll soon move on finally
we collectively get there by the shores
of the river to play laughs and cry
and the running water
taking our pain and the morning sun
researching us while drying our tears
and
and during the
era of internal conflict and terrorists
in peru
many were unable to say goodbye
to their relatives in ayakucho also
many didn't even know that this
was happening but the losses were left
and were felt sorry people
died without saying goodbye to their
loved one
the the souls of decades
uh sorry the souls of descents
are presence in the lands they inhabited
the borders of their bodies and
this is what happened with my with my
grandmother
who when she dies her soul
went to stay in the most important tree
in her tongue
but today in the age of koit
we have to see high numbers of deaths
per day
and today we have to kyla strangers so
that their body can return
as ashes in a box and
this was for me the
experience that i can
that i can
have with with the program
yes thanks
the layers of pattern and
imagery are incredibly evocative i
i love how there's a kind of
um imagined future in some of those
uh generated objects and then a sense of
tradition and natural
texture as well with the flowers the
earth
the landscape really beautifully
beautifully displayed
yeah i just wanted to say that the qr
codes unfortunately i have not
re-updated but if you come back in here
next week i'll update them and
it leads to a really amazing 3d model
that giovanna created
so yes i can send a
all of those who are in the space i
noticed gabe you also chatted to
us that if you right click on on a work
it will fill your screen
so if you're approaching your work or if
there's if you're crowded by other
avatars
and can't quite see the work clearly um
make sure to right click on it and then
you'll get a full view yeah and giovanna
just uh
sent a link to the sketchfab file
and what you can do with that actually
is if you go to
download in the sketchfab file you can
go to download a usdz
file which is an augmented reality if
you download that on your phone
you can then have the augmented reality
of her model in your living room or
wherever you're at
so maybe we could go over to
um work which is just to our left
great and as we do that too
i just wanted to let everybody know that
we are near the top of the hour so we're
gonna
be moving into a more casual lounge
space
if you want to start conversations
outside of this main conversation where
we're going to continue
touring galleries um please feel free to
do that within the lounges
um the artists who are sitting there uh
listening in or eager to talk with you
all so please do
start up conversations of your own here
in this conversation we're gonna
um spend a little more time here with
the peruvian artists and then we're
gonna move into
a sure of the aai columbia gallery space
so we just said please tell us
hi well thank you for the
invitation it's really an honor to
share this afternoon with all of you and
i'm going to talk about my experience in
the program
and the experience in the program has
been a spark of
many ideas that were in my head since i
began to interesting in interesting and
experiment
with the technology and its relationship
to generate better pedagogical
experience and i greatly value and honor
the people with
whom i've been able to learn and share
and as a museum educator and visual
artist
gabriel's exercise on thinking about the
future
made me think about how the
relationships
that we generate with our history and
the so-called heritage are transformed
now
with new technologies so
what new narratives can be generated and
this is how
the the colonial augmented reality of
augmented colonial project was born
it's an exercise of citizen mediation
that proposed us to visit lima making
use of augmented reality
to break the presence and review the
monuments of lima
from the colonial and anti-patriarchal
point of view
and to reveal in these courses this
course
that are replicated in the human dynamic
of lima
and if you i know that that qr
codes are not functioning right now but
i'm going to pass the link
and you can see just the preview
of what i was able to
to do in in this
in the program with the with with
all my partners and it was really cool
to learn all about
these other all about these other uh
tools uh to build uh or to deconstruct
this
monument that is so important in lima
and not for the good reasons
so thank you
so i guess we can uh go to leo's work um
which is um just to also to kind of the
right of the entrance
and follow me i could leave this over
there
okay so
it's like on the right hand of the
collection
yes
and then to the center oh there you are
oh no i i totally had you in the wrong
spot yeah you're you're up over here
there we go okay uh first of all i wanna
uh congratulate the brazilian
an exposition really meaning project
about uh how we
we see our places and i think
that's what i um i value about this
experience
i mean we can uh during all the
the workshops uh i think we value the
new experiences
we saw and that's what i like
recapitulate
on on my work so ice lima
as this place where
million of like a story like
storytelling about us
about our people about ours uh about how
we live in
lima and i use uh psychogeography
to in order to portray uh these visions
see these three clutches that um talk
about um
talk a little more about uh my own
experience on lima
but also the experience that i uh could
like
um gather from other people
that i like uh what i try to explain in
here is
not like the problems we see in the city
but
uh how we feel the city along with uh
with the shape of the map of the
of of this uh
metropoli about um one
one common theme that we all uh have
here in lima that is the public
transportation that
we almost see the scales and uh
disorganization
but but it also makes
you can see once that uh you get into
the public transportation it's like
this place where a lot of uh a lot of
people meet
uh not only in a in a sense of
of on people in here so
the next one it's like a more personal
one
a little more about the memories the
people that
you have in here and how does um
your experience lima also
are surrounded by you so this is like um
this is this is like a very important
part
on how we create our visions in lima
and this on the third part it's like a
more uh
um in places that that
identify the city for you not only like
in like a historical valley a way
because we tend to slim as this uh
as this historic place that is full of
culture or
um but also this place that
you create a history that you have your
own visions and your own places that you
are
identify as and and creates
this perspective that you have up around
the city
so
i wanted to it's called nuestra lima or
lima
it's like our libya our our story
our our identity and how we create this
to
to make this city like a better place
it's uh a place that well the workshop
says
it's uh resilience so we must create
resilience about our own story you know
and i think that's the important part
about this
so yeah that's basically
thank you leo that's i i'm resonating
with the
public transit imagery in this moment
where
we've all been isolated in our own home
spaces and public transit
has become this impossible thing i think
about cities like
like lima and how impossible it must be
for
communities to connect and for people to
both be safe
and also move about the city uh
at the same time so somehow these images
are
nostalgic
great yeah more generally yeah
yeah thank you very much thank you thank
you all
so um we are so burning through some
time here i think it's time to
to move on to the next gallery but i
really do encourage everybody to spend
more time
in this ai peru virtual gallery
please reach out to us if you have any
questions um everyone who is sticking
around
i hope you can also have some side
conversations in the video lounge
and talk more dive a little deeper if
you're able
um so thank you very much giovanna
cristina leonardo
jose and gabe for for leading us through
this space
you're all welcome to leave the
conversation come back in as listeners
and uh and i will invite in some of the
artists from aei colombia thank you so
much
thank you everybody thank you
valentina welcome
and you are both welcome to mute
yourself um straight away just so we
don't get too much audio overlapping
all right for those of you who are in
the video lounges with us
gabe has just uh chatted a
link to the to a mural um collaboration
that was a series of postcards to the
future created by those same
participants from
ai lima thinking about their city and
urban futurity so please take a look at
that
and as everybody is transitioning into
the ai columbia space i think it's
probably time for me to share
the link to that art steps gallery so
we're going to a different
type of virtual space that's last tour
art steps is its own um
separate platform for creating virtual
gallery space
it's not a it's not open source godzilla
hubs
platform it also has really beautiful
rendering and this one one difference
you'll notice is that
we are not going to be avatars in the
space together so each of you will be
having your own independent
experience moving through the gallery
space excuse me
i'm sure i think juliana is at the
listeners
place yeah thank you valentina i will go
and grab her now
there she is
and has hanzo joined us i'm not sure
i thought i saw him earlier but i
haven't seen him
let me look in the list okay yeah i'm
not seeing pencil at the moment either
but if you're
watching us on the live stream so um
please do come back into the video
lounge and feel free to join us
um and chat when you're back so that i
know to come and let you in
and welcome juliana also
um and you can also get yourself to to
start and then we'll
unmute when you'd like to speak
so um similarly to how we started last
time
um with gabe i'd love to to turn to you
first wendy and just have you
give us a little bit of context about
this exchange
which was based virtually in barangay
but also involved
with humans from across colombia is
based in medellin
so please yeah tell us a little bit
about yeah um
yes um hi everyone i'm i'm wendy and
this lab we called labratorio in las
fronteras
and it was really designed
to center the artist's waist um
as we look together at the
whoops i'm hearing i'm getting a lot of
fun
can you hear me still
[Music]
me
wendy you're muted as well at the moment
actually so if you can just unlock
i unmuted my it doesn't say i'm muted we
had to mute everybody in order to mute
yeah okay okay back check um
so we're looking at um migration
statelessness identity focusing on the
colombian venezuela border region
and we really wanted to leverage
storytelling image making and technology
to really kind of just enlarge
the narratives of the
migrants and their lived experience on
the ground so the biggest challenge
we faced as a group going into it was
covid and how could we
um everyone was quite concerned at the
beginning of
you know we can't tell the stories of
others without them there
and so our which was so beautiful to me
that it was not that was not a concept
that
i needed to introduce these artists
already held it
and it felt um very much
that this experience was going to be not
only about the work that we created
and could show but the process of its
creation
and so we began to focus very carefully
on how we collaborated
who we were to one another because we
quickly realized that the stories that
must be told now are our own stories
and it was well it was a little
uncomfortable for some at the beginning
everyone really this the the kind of
poetry that came
out of this lab was about their own
lived experience the poetry of the
experience
of the migrant that is ourselves
and it was every you know we began and
ended every
lab with the story circle we came
together
in really different ways we checked up
on each other via text there were
meetings in between our group meetings
to make sure that we were all
okay and that the vulnerability and the
openness
that was being created in the light of
this work
was being held by each one of the
artists in the group
and so we um it feels very much like
our art steps experience is a blueprint
for what we would like to do
in barnunkia in the streets of
communities
as public art and that this experience
we
embedded not only we did some 3d
modeling within the space
we embedded augmented reality and
selected works
and we used multiple we used some it was
some still visual art some photography
some video some sound design and that
standing in front of each work
in this virtual space is its own
narrative of migration both personal
and geographic and metaphorical
these artists are extraordinary and um i
really want to be quiet and have juliana
and valentina
take you through the space because it
really does
now belong to all of them and we can't
wait to work with the uh
museum in valencia to realize
something together maybe even as soon as
late next year if we can beat this covet
thing
but valentina you want to jump in first
potentially uh hi everyone
um i'm really honored to be here and to
be sharing
uh this space with you guys i really
liked uh
what the incubator in peru and brazil
uh resulted in it was beautiful
and so yeah as wendy told you uh
we were thinking that we're gonna be in
the warm streets of barranquilla
uh creating our i don't know our
creations
it might sound redundant but that's
that's the thing
but because of cobit we have to do it
all
uh virtually but it was uh also
a great great um challenge for all of us
and i think that i mean
when we when you talk about migration
you know that
all of us in our family even ourselves
have a story related to migration
so it was kind of easy
to do something with it but at the same
time
like for me it was too personal and i
was like
i mean this is too personal can
everybody resonate with
it and the thing is that yes uh that's
how we
even came up with the name my story many
stories because
we found out that uh the things that
we've been going through
maybe other person uh uh
went through already so yeah
so i don't know why my my
the museum that we created is not
loading in my
because i wanna maybe what you can do
valentina is give us some guidance
verbally and then
um we can have the live tours walk into
yeah yeah
so maybe we can do it we're at the
entrance
yeah great actually a model from
uh the actual uh museo de arte moderno
in barranquilla
so i mean hopefully we're gonna have
our our pieces there it's uh
someday so yeah
and we had uh if
in that yeah there so those are like
fragmentos
oh no no no no can you go back please
yeah because we're entering the space
there on the wall
um there's a list of the four thematic
areas we have all of our uh
all of our uh creations divided by four
uh
uh like four moments if you might call
them
uh fragmentos reconfiguration
so we have to pick uh one of those to
see
where our creation might fit better
so yeah and if you go like
to the uh and you also need artifact
to some of this to watch some of these
pieces and it's a really cool app
that you can download on your phone i
just chatted the link to ardovive
um into the video lounge for those of
you who are over this
um yeah if you search artavive on your
device
um all of the pieces in the gallery that
have an augmentation
um have a little a letter beside them
i mean you can hold your phone or tablet
up to your screen as you're touring
through the gallery to get that extra
layer
valentina let's go to your piece and
talk you talk about
the your that journey of creating there
um so if you could head to the back room
like the back on the right there
let's see if we can get there oh there
it is you see that
to the right a little more and then the
other right the other way the left
no no yeah yeah okay
[Laughter]
um no here we can i'll uh i'll i'll see
if i can if i can guide us over there
it was that little uh slowly scan to the
right there's a large
um room that has a big large video
screen in it
and there's a person on a toboggan yet
behind the black wall behind the black
wall
yeah the large panel on the left yeah
that one talk about that so that's my
piece um it's called you made me lose my
accent mrs
and i mean the process it's really hard
i mean because i remember that i was
talking to wendy and i wanted to do like
this kind of big performance at the
beginning
and when i was doing it
actually i felt like writing this piece
and and then i show it to wendy and i
was like this is completely different
from
what i told you about and
um it is uh something really personal
i uh it is like a spoken word uh
piece and that's a picture of me and my
cousins that that picture is from 1997
it's in stein island new york and
and then if you if you uh take your
phone
and put it in front of the of that
picture
uh with the artifact app uh you get
uh the video with my spoken word
uh where i'm actually telling like a
personal story from uh my experiences as
an immigrant
and and um other stories that i've been
told
and yeah you can i share the link to the
video
of course yes okay i'll put that in the
chat
okay and as uh as wendy's sharing the
the video link um juliana maybe you can
tell us a little bit as well about
one of the spaces in the gallery or your
work in the gallery
hi everyone i'm so
excited to be here and so nervous
too because my english is not too good
when i want to talk
but i one i really want to
try because
the american arts incubator was an
important
experience for me because
before the program i
i mean i always
do i usually do many things about
the other people about
others and the program was a platform
was an
opportunity where i can
do something about my
experience my own experience
um like a migrant
so um yes first i
i would like to say that despite of the
virus by this situation
we had an incredible session
where we could explore
different concepts such as
[Music]
immigration like immigration as
um human experience
as emotional emotional experience
and um also
the borders on the body our bodies
um like our home
our house
okay i think
that in the program we were wondering
many things about immigration and
in my personal case
a as valentina
my from my personal experience
because i was a migrant in the states
so um from my experience
i want to say many things eh
because it was a
hard situation we we are
latins girls and it was hard in the
states
as you know so my piece i
i don't know how but my my
name is temporary correspondence
and the piece emerged
when i wrote six
cards to my
past i i don't know how can i
say that but it was uh
it is a fiction um
where i explore um
which things i want to say
to my old
i yourself was a
migrant
and from these
letters um
[Music]
immersed um
six videos
where i explored the image the
when with
the shadow on a light
i explore a was
what i was and what i
um now after the
[Music]
immigration situation or experience
and what's great can you is your piece
in the little room
yes yes so uh
yeah i don't know this room
another not this room oh no
this is not yours do you remember
is it in the back there yeah
[Music]
no no um the other side oh
look come forward again
[Music]
virtual space is very difficult so hard
um so is it it's on the on the left-hand
side of the far
or the far back on the left i believe
yeah the back room here where there's a
red
piece on the wall there's a red yeah
back here
and then
thank you perfect and
so yeah the presidency is um was
so interesting because um i
did the those videos
in my bedroom
i experiment
with the lights with the shadows
with my own words that i
want to say to other people
that is that that today is
[Music]
migrant and my old i
i don't know my old me that was a
mirandu i think that
we explore we were experimenting the
community um activities
and global collaboratory art
and i personally am
[Music]
exploring how how with my
personal creations be able to transform
my
community and my context and
i i think that all the participants
in many ways could um
explore that
thank you that was brilliant thank you
so much
these are you know the the works that
both of you are presenting in this
exhibition are both
so deeply personal it's really profound
to me
how much the participants yourselves
included and then others in
the colombian exchange were able to
really go inside themselves
especially um when we think about how it
all began
you know wendy you're talking about how
we were really sort of looking outside
ourselves when we started the experience
thinking about you know what are these
global movements of peoples that are
underway right now
the venezuelan migration into colombia
also
being an american artist going to
colombia we can't escape the
conversation about
migration to the us which you two are
both sharing in your work
and i i really applaud you both and all
the other partisans
in ai colombia for being able to to move
from that outward gaze internally and
then eventually communicate something
that i think we can all relate to in
some way no matter where we are
on the planet um so really really strong
work
um like the other exhibition spaces i
really want to encourage folks to spend
as much time as you can in there it's
well worth getting the art of
app as well so that you can fully um
immerse yourself in these works
um and i think so that we can just
loosen up and and have some time for
casual conversation
i'm going to wrap this moment of
exhibition tours
um thank you valentina wendy so much for
for giving us all a little live stream
action in your gallery space
um please hang out in the video lounge
um you can exit this conversation and
then start conversations with
whomever you choose um and and please do
share more about your work
and ask questions about everybody else's
and as we're making this transition cha
chao i'm going to invite in um
barry through to wrap things up here
barry what a day it has been hey
how's it going it has been a
amazing day full of um
almost too many ideas to recount here
um but you know we
uh thank you for that incredible
presentation by your artists
um you know one thing i was going to ask
is
um
you mentioned this a little bit but just
to recount some of the process of how
your uh incubator program
changed from you know due to covid
and what the process would have been
like and what
um ended up happening and sort of how
that
got dealt with and how you ended up
making these virtual spaces
because it seems like the artist did it
all really fast i'm just wondering if
maybe you could
sort of describe that process because it
was alluded to but i think it's
important to sort of get a context of
kind of what happened here
yeah absolutely i'm happy to fill it in
you know
the the thing that i'm impressed with
every year in the american hearts
incubator program is how
um people are able to work no matter
where they are you know we've worked in
small villages in ecuador
um worked in nepal during flooding where
our maker space was
literally like two feet under water um
all sorts of
challenging circumstances over the years
and and
no matter what seems to strike uh the
participants always
pull off these really incredible works
given the short period of time so i
think it's a
testament to you know the power of
creativity when people
are brought together um as what can be
achieved in a very short period of time
so that that 10-day period of production
development that i mentioned
is part of the full month incubator
you know and start off with as you can
imagine sort of introductory activities
where
the visiting american artist is
presenting a bit of their work
getting to know and meet some of the
people on the ground and then
they lead a series of workshops so wendy
gabe and santiago who you all met on the
tours tonight
they each led about a week of workshop
activity to teach some of these skills
to participants on the ground so for
these virtual spaces like this is the i
think for all the artists we heard from
tonight
is their first time working in either
augmented reality
in the case of columbia or working in
hubs and creating
work in 3d space and virtual space so
they learn the tools
very quickly and then had about 10 days
to
ideate work together and um and create
the
pieces you saw tonight wow that's an
amazing testament to both the program
and sort of the skill of the artist that
they've been able to do that
do you and maybe some of the artists are
here we could ask this but um
still but do you have any
um idea of
how this transition into doing something
in a virtual space changed the kind of
work
or the or the conception of how the
artist
approached the work from what they were
thinking previously
yeah um so i mean there's a number of
uh different cases i think that are
displayed tonight like so we started off
with brazil
the first tour that we did into the
rental motto space and with brazil we
actually experienced
you know both the in-person exchange the
emergency maneuvers required to
to reset and get our american artist who
was visiting back to
the us and then continue in the ritual
and for that
for that exchange there was this kind of
liminal experience where
the artists had you know a deep
engagement within the context of an
exchange where they were all in the same
room together for about a week
then they dispersed and they were able
to take equipment with them because we'd
already done some like
transfer resources and things so people
were able to take like 360 video cams
and
some other equipment home with them and
then venture out into the city
and gather material from their city so i
think you notice in those
in that piece that we saw tonight there
were there was more footage taken out in
public space
there was more content that just came
from
anything outside of the home i guess you
could say um whereas the the other two
exhibits that were
were shared tonight all of the
participants had to really
work within their home space every this
was literally produced during lockdown
so
everybody was you know mining their own
experience um looking at what was around
them the materials they had with them in
their own homes so there was a
different kind of creative constraint
given
there would be a lot of field tripping
spending time
outside roaming together as a group and
in this case there were a lot more sort
of personal introspective
works produced very cool
um i mean i think we'll kick it over to
the lounges now and keep this discussion
going here
for everybody that's still listening
please join us again tomorrow
i mean thank you today to kalani and
tommy and all of our artists
um tomorrow uh
we'll start at 11 a.m pacific with
lawrence lick
tomorrow is has sort of a video game
thread that's
that's focused through all the kind of
simulations it's a fantastic day we have
uh pay zero at 1 pm
uh pacific time and then la turbo avedon
at 3 p.m pacific time with lounge
sessions
all in between of course the uh bin
inn's virtual exhibition
is open all day and there'll be some
if you come in the lounges we can give
some more tours of that and then
5 p.m pacific we have uh another lounge
session
with the buck minister fuller
institute's design science studio
um with roxy trisaudi and a bunch of
artists from that group as well um
kalania will be joined tomorrow by ziva
javar from the uk
helping lead that session we're excited
about that um
and i think in terms of
that's about all i got to say um thanks
everybody for joining today we'll
see you uh bright and early tomorrow
and thank you chem chair and uh the zero
one artist for doing this session it's
really fascinating group of work and
congratulations
thanks so much thank you for having us
of course
good night good luck everybody